README.md, before:

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.hndrs/jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter?style=for-the-badge)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.hndrs/jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/sonar/coverage/hndrs_jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=for-the-badge)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=hndrs_jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter)
[![Supported Java Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supported%20Java%20Version-11%2B-informational?style=for-the-badge)]()
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=GitHub&label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&color=ff69b4&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/sponsors/marvinschramm)

# Getting Started

Add the following dependency to the build file

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...
    implementation("io.hndrs:jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter:1.0.0")
    ...
}
```

#### Configuration

Adding the issuer and the jwks path for the verification to the ```application.properties```

```properties
hndrs.jwt.key-store-path=https://domain.auth0.com/.well-known/jwks.json
```

#### Controller

```kotlin

@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Map<String, Any> {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return claimSet
}

```

#### RequestTokenResolver

By default the jwt token will be resolved from the ```Authorization``` Header in the following
format ```Bearer <jwt_token>```. To resolve the token from another header or in a different format a bean implementing
the [RequestTokenResolver](src/main/kotlin/io/hndrs/jwt/RequestTokenResolver.kt)
interface can be used.

Resolving token from Header ```x-custom-header: Token <jwt_token>```

```kotlin
@Bean
fun requestTokenResolver(): RequestTokenResolver {
    return object : RequestTokenResolver {

        override fun tokenHeaderName(): String {
            return "x-custom-header"
        }

        override fun tokenResolver(headerValue: String?): String {
            if (headerValue == null) {
                throw UnauthorizedIdentityException("${tokenHeaderName()} Header not present")
            }
            if (!headerValue.startsWith("Token ")) {
                throw UnauthorizedIdentityException("Token is not present")
            }

            return headerValue.replace("Token ", "")
        }
    }
}

```

#### ClaimSetTransformer

By default the claimSet is represented as a ```Map<String, Any>``` to enrich or transform the map into a typed object a
bean implementing the [ClaimSetTransformer](src/main/kotlin/io/hndrs/jwt/ClaimSetTransformer.kt)
interface can be used.


> Transforming claimSet to a CustomUser object

```kotlin
data class CustomUser(val id: String, val name: String, val email: String)

@Bean
fun claimSetTransformer(): ClaimSetTransformer {
    return object : ClaimSetTransformer {
        override fun transform(claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Any {
            return CustomUser(
                claimSet["sub"] as String,
                claimSet["name"] as String,
                claimSet["email"] as String,
            )
        }
    }
}

// transformed object
@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity user: CustomUser): CustomUser {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return user
}
```

> Loading a user object

```kotlin

interface UserRepository : MongoRepository<String, DatabaseUser>

@Component
class UserLoadingClaimSetTransformer(
    private val userRepository: UserRepository
) : ClaimSetTransformer {
    override fun transform(claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Any {
        return userRepository.findById(claimSet["sub"] as String)
    }
}

// transformed object
@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity user: DatabaseUser): CustomUser {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return user
}
```

Commit message:

Mention @Identity annotation in readme

README.md, after:

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/io.hndrs/jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter?style=for-the-badge)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.hndrs/jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/sonar/coverage/hndrs_jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter?server=https%3A%2F%2Fsonarcloud.io&style=for-the-badge)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=hndrs_jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter)
[![Supported Java Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supported%20Java%20Version-11%2B-informational?style=for-the-badge)]()
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=GitHub&label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&color=ff69b4&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/sponsors/marvinschramm)

# Getting Started

Add the following dependency to the build file

```kotlin
dependencies {
    ...
    implementation("io.hndrs:jwt-auth-spring-boot-starter:1.0.0")
    ...
}
```

#### Configuration

Adding the issuer and the jwks path for the verification to the ```application.properties```

```properties
hndrs.jwt.key-store-path=https://domain.auth0.com/.well-known/jwks.json
```

#### Controller

To inject the claimSet into a ```RestController``` method just use the ```@Identity``` annotation on the parameter

```kotlin

@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Map<String, Any> {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return claimSet
}

```

#### RequestTokenResolver

By default the jwt token will be resolved from the ```Authorization``` Header in the following
format ```Bearer <jwt_token>```. To resolve the token from another header or in a different format a bean implementing
the [RequestTokenResolver](src/main/kotlin/io/hndrs/jwt/RequestTokenResolver.kt)
interface can be used.

Resolving token from Header ```x-custom-header: Token <jwt_token>```

```kotlin
@Bean
fun requestTokenResolver(): RequestTokenResolver {
    return object : RequestTokenResolver {

        override fun tokenHeaderName(): String {
            return "x-custom-header"
        }

        override fun tokenResolver(headerValue: String?): String {
            if (headerValue == null) {
                throw UnauthorizedIdentityException("${tokenHeaderName()} Header not present")
            }
            if (!headerValue.startsWith("Token ")) {
                throw UnauthorizedIdentityException("Token is not present")
            }

            return headerValue.replace("Token ", "")
        }
    }
}

```

#### ClaimSetTransformer

By default the claimSet is represented as a ```Map<String, Any>``` to enrich or transform the map into a typed object a
bean implementing the [ClaimSetTransformer](src/main/kotlin/io/hndrs/jwt/ClaimSetTransformer.kt)
interface can be used.


> Transforming claimSet to a CustomUser object

```kotlin
data class CustomUser(val id: String, val name: String, val email: String)

@Bean
fun claimSetTransformer(): ClaimSetTransformer {
    return object : ClaimSetTransformer {
        override fun transform(claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Any {
            return CustomUser(
                claimSet["sub"] as String,
                claimSet["name"] as String,
                claimSet["email"] as String,
            )
        }
    }
}

// transformed object
@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity user: CustomUser): CustomUser {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return user
}
```

> Loading a user object

```kotlin

interface UserRepository : MongoRepository<String, DatabaseUser>

@Component
class UserLoadingClaimSetTransformer(
    private val userRepository: UserRepository
) : ClaimSetTransformer {
    override fun transform(claimSet: Map<String, Any>): Any {
        return userRepository.findById(claimSet["sub"] as String)
    }
}

// transformed object
@GetMapping("/user")
fun getUser(@Identity user: DatabaseUser): CustomUser {
    // do something with the user claimSet
    return user
}
```
